Assignment for Peer ReviewSource:  Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data SetJorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto.Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems LaboratoryDITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova.Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.activityrecognition@smartlab.wswww.smartlab.wsShelley MatsubaGetting and Cleaning Data Coursera Course, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public HealthJune 2014DATA FILESThe script that created the two data sets, called run_analysis.R, is included in the repository.  The script assumes that the zipped file containing the assignment information has been downloaded from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip.  The files were unzipped to the R working directory.  The following files were used in the script:1. activity_labels.txt (found in the UCI HAR Dataset folder)2. features.txt (found in the UCI HAR Dataset folder)3. subject_test.txt (found in the UCI HAR Dataset/test folder)4. X_test.txt (found in the UCI HAR Dataset/test folder)5. y_test.txt (found in the UCI HAR Dataset/test folder)6. subject_train.txt (found in the UCI HAR Dataset/train  folder)7. X_train.txt (found in the UCI HAR Dataset/train  folder)8. y_train.txt (found in the UCI HAR Dataset/train  folder)The six activities (walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing, and laying) were listed with the corresponding codes (one through six) in activity_labels.txt.  The subject identifiers (one through 30?) were in subject_xxx.txt for the respective test or train group.  Each subject identifier was in a separate row.  The X_test.txt and X_train.txt files contain the measurement data.PROCESSING THE DATAThe test and train files were processed separately, then merged.  The reason was to ensure that there was sufficient memory to do the processing.  Since the number of rows in the subject_test.txt, x_test.txt and y_test.txt files was the same (2,947), the assumption was made that the order of the rows should be preserved to link the subject, the activity and the data.  This assumption held when examining the number of rows (7352) for the corresponding files in the “train” group.A sequential index variable (1 through the number of rows) was created for each file to facilitate the merging of these three files.  The merge() command was used to merge the files based on the index value.EXTRACTING THE REQUESTED VARIABLESThe variable names for the data were taken from features.txt.  Since the instructions were to extract only the mean and standard deviation measurements, the grep() function was used to search for “mean”, “std”, and “Mean”.  The selected variables were placed in a temporary file along with the corresponding row number (i.e., selected numbers between 1 and 561.)  The variable names are listed below in a section called “Variables”.  The row numbers were retained to select out the relevant columns from the data frame.  They were also retained to enable easy renaming of the variable names, or columns, using match().COMBINING THE TEST AND TRAIN DATAThe test and train data were then concatenated using rbind(), with the test data followed by the train data for a total of 10,299 rows.  VARIABLE NAMESThe mean and standard deviation variables or columns that were selected were renamed using match().  The original column name took the form “Vx” where x is the variable number.  A “V” was appended to the row numbers that were saved to the temporary file mentioned above.  This allowed the match() function to substitute the “Vx” with the variable name.Value labels were specified for each of the six activities using the factor() function.  The labels include: (1) “walking”, (2) “walking upstairs”, (3) “walking downstairs”, (4) “sitting”, (5) “standing”, and (6) “laying”.The file, called combined.csv, is located in the repository.CREATION OF SECOND FILE In order to create the second file, which contains the average of each variable in the combined data set calculated for each activity/subject combination, ddply() from the dply library was used.  The output from the function call includes yy rows with the subject id, activity, and the averages for the 61 variables.  The file, called averages.csv, is located in the repository.
VARIABLESThe following variables were extracted based on the occurrence of the words “mean”, “std”, and “Mean” in the variable name.  Also included is the variable number from the original list.1 tBodyAcc-mean()-X2 tBodyAcc-mean()-Y3 tBodyAcc-mean()-Z4 tBodyAcc-std()-X5 tBodyAcc-std()-Y6 tBodyAcc-std()-Z41 tGravityAcc-mean()-X42 tGravityAcc-mean()-Y43 tGravityAcc-mean()-Z44 tGravityAcc-std()-X45 tGravityAcc-std()-Y46 tGravityAcc-std()-Z81 tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X82 tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y83 tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z84 tBodyAccJerk-std()-X85 tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y86 tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z121 tBodyGyro-mean()-X122 tBodyGyro-mean()-Y123 tBodyGyro-mean()-Z124 tBodyGyro-std()-X125 tBodyGyro-std()-Y126 tBodyGyro-std()-Z161 tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X162 tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y163 tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z164 tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X165 tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y166 tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z201 tBodyAccMag-mean()202 tBodyAccMag-std()214 tGravityAccMag-mean()215 tGravityAccMag-std()227 tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()228 tBodyAccJerkMag-std()240 tBodyGyroMag-mean()241 tBodyGyroMag-std()253 tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()254 tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()266 fBodyAcc-mean()-X267 fBodyAcc-mean()-Y268 fBodyAcc-mean()-Z269 fBodyAcc-std()-X270 fBodyAcc-std()-Y271 fBodyAcc-std()-Z294 fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-X295 fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Y296 fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Z345 fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X346 fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y347 fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z348 fBodyAccJerk-std()-X349 fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y350 fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z373 fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-X374 fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Y375 fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Z424 fBodyGyro-mean()-X425 fBodyGyro-mean()-Y426 fBodyGyro-mean()-Z427 fBodyGyro-std()-X428 fBodyGyro-std()-Y429 fBodyGyro-std()-Z452 fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-X453 fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Y454 fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Z503 fBodyAccMag-mean()504 fBodyAccMag-std()513 fBodyAccMag-meanFreq()516 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()517 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()526 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-meanFreq()529 fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()530 fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()539 fBodyBodyGyroMag-meanFreq()542 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()543 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()552 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-meanFreq()555 angle(tBodyAccMean,gravity)556 angle(tBodyAccJerkMean),gravityMean)557 angle(tBodyGyroMean,gravityMean)558 angle(tBodyGyroJerkMean,gravityMean)559 angle(X,gravityMean)560 angle(Y,gravityMean)561 angle(Z,gravityMean)